regularly clearing out gutters and down
pipes makes for a lighter work later on
it stops a system from getting blocked
with debris which can lead to long-term
water damage if you're not careful right
then the writer gotta clean out those
gutters hope you go thanks Matt you can
hold the ladder of course now I know
you've probably heard this a million
times but ladder safely is important do
make sure that the ladder is on a level
surface that you're actually propping it
up up against something which is secure
also try not to go up there if it's too
windy and always make sure you got
somebody at the bottom like me just
spotting the ladder and keeping it
steady okay use heavy-duty gloves to
clear out the gutters Oh a plastic milk
carton with the bottom cut off makes an
ideal scoop for clearing out old leaves
and debris always move the ladder along
the gutter so you don't over stretch
also attach your bucket to the ladder
with a butcher's hook to keep your
hands-free while you're cleaning away
it's an ideal opportunity to check the
state of your gutters and check for
cracks that need sealing or to see if
you need to repair brackets if the
guttering is sagging good stuff although
I can't see it but what's good for you
is good for me as you can see cleaning
out gutters is relatively
straightforward for down pipes it's just
a little bit more tricky you probably
need to use drain rods but that said use
this stuff and you won't it's just a
simple mesh which you cut to size you
pop over the top of the down pipe and it
collects the leaves for you and of
course don't forget to pop those leaves
on the composting